# Gain-Chart

Let’s look at scenario, let say you are data scientist for a store which sells clothes. Your store has total of 100,000 customers’. You know that, based on your experience, whenever you sent an offer-email to all your customers. Approximately 10% of them respondent and purchase the product. What you think, will happen if we sent to 20,000 customers. How many do you think will respondent? And this is the random sample and we know about 10% will respondent. Would say 2,000 will respondent. Far enough right, if we sent to 40,000 customers would say 4,000 60,000 -6000, 80,000-8000, 10,000-10000.this is the random selection process .here we can draw a line which actually represent random selection. Slope of the line equal to 10% respondent if we sent them out mail. Now the question here is can we somehow improve the more customer to respondent when we sent out a mail. Can we somehow target our customers more appropriately to get better respondent. How about instead of sending out random sample of customers, we pick and choose the customers we sent this offer mail to. How do we pick and choose? Let’s build a model, basically a customer segmentation model ,which we are going to predict they purchase or not ,we can take a group of customers before we send out offer and look back and see who made a purchase, whether male or female , which country were they in ,what age predominantly were they, were they browsing on mobile or computer all of these factors , we can take them into account and measure them and build logistic regression and get a model which will help us to assess the likelihood of certain type of customers purchasing based on their characteristics. Once we build this model how about apply it. Model will tell us something like.Rank our customers and give them a probability to purchasing a product .we can use that probability to contact our customers. Let say if we contact 20,000...will probably get a much higher response compared to random contact.bcaz we are picking out the customers which are having highest risk of accepting our offers. We know from previous behavior of customers similar to them that they have 90% or 80% chance of purchasing the product. And we will go for them first. And we will put them in top list of customers who contact. Then we contact 40,000 our response will higher when compared to 4000 which we get it from random sample. If our models really good then by the time we are 60,000 we will get almost 8000 or 9000 customers who responding. We are already contacted pretty much everyone. If you want to contact more, if we sent out 80,000, ll getting even closer 10,000 thousand responses. Now we just draw the line, u can get Cumulative accuracy profile of your model and as you can imagine, better the model, the area between the two lines ll increase when your models get better. If worst then, then both lines are closer. And let say you are running another models and plot it...and therefore by plotting the GAIN chart, u ll be able to compare models each other and understand how much gain you get in each of these models compared to the random models. Or how much additional gain u gets from switching from one model to another model. Since ur improving hit ratio and therefore u improving ur Return on Investments. This is how we are going to asses our models. 


Building Models
When we have one dependent variable and one independent variable, everything was easy, But if we have many of the variable, We need to decide, which one want to keep and which one we wanna threw out ,and you can ask, why do we need to threw our , why can’t we just use everything in our model. Well I Can think of two reasons of the top of my head.the Number one is garbage in and garbage Out.if you threw a lot of stuff into ur model,Then ur Model will not be a good model, it won’t be reliable and it won’t be doing what its suppose to do,and the Number two.and end of the day , we have to explain these variable and make understand the math behind ,or actually what does mean that. and certain variable explain the behavior of ur dependent variable and ewe need to explain to respective stakeholders who don’t anything about the maths.say if you have a 100 variable, it’s not going to be a practical to explain. So you want to keep only very important ones that actually predict something. so how do we construct the model 
Backward Elimination
Step 1 : first thing we have to select a significance level to stay in the model. By default we can go with 5%,we are going to use it for next step.
Step 2: we need to fit the Full Models with all possible Predictors or put all variables into ur model
Step 3: we consider the predictor with the highest p-value. if P > SL then we go to remove those variable
Step 4: fit the Model without this variable.if you just remove the variable, obviously we have to actually re fit the model with fewer number of variable.if you had 100 variable.if you remove one of them,so ur co-efficients going to be different,and the constant going to be different.after step-4,we need go back to step -3 ,once again you look for the variable with higher p-value in ur new model.you take it out and fit the model again.and keep doing that until you come to point where p-value is less than your significant Level.so as soon as all of the variable which you have left in model are the p-values less than SL.



Forward Elimination
 Step 1 : first thing we have to select a significance level to stay in the model. By default we can go with 5%, we are going to use it for next step.
Step 2 :- we fit all possible simple regression models, so we take dependent variable, and we create a regression models with every single independent variable that we have and then we select out all of those models , we select the one which has the lowest p- value.then what we do, we move to step-3
We keep this variable that we just chosen we fit all other possible models with one extra predictors added to the one you already have. So what’s that mean, we selected a simple linear regression with one variable, now we need to construct all possible linear regression with two-variables where one of those which we select.then out of all of these possible true variable regression we can consider  the one had the lowest p-value.then we  move back to step-3, now we add third variable and try all possible combination with left ones.basically we keep growing the regression model.we will be actually selecting out of the all of the possible combinations every single time and growing one-variable at a time
And then we will only stop when the variable that we added, it has the p-value that greater than our significant Level.

